# Project 4: Geometry Wars Clone

Wesley Tsai, 44396109, r8c8 
Hamza Faran, 12563110, b5j8

By submitting this file, I hereby declare that I (or our team of two) worked 
individually on this assignment and wrote all of this code. I/we have listed 
all external resources (web pages, books) used below. I/we have listed all 
people with whom I/we have had significant discussions about 
the project below.

### What is this game

    We created a 3d shooter with 2d controls
    You control a ship with the WASD keys, and fire with the mouse button
    When enemies touch you, you lose health, and die at 0 health
    You gain score by killing an enemy
    Enemies spawn faster as time goes on

    Advanced Functionality:
        Shaders: Phong shading and lighting on main Ship
        Particle System: Explosion when enemies or your ship are killed
        Procedural motion: Enemies are randomly spawned with procedural movement patterns that are dictated by acceleration
            - Horizontal moving enemies
            - Bouncing enemies
            - Homing enemies
        Collision Detection: Projectile to enemy detection and player to enemy detection
            - Efficient computation with Spacial Hashing
        Animation: Camera trajectory keeps player in view, but with interesting flow and animation so that it's not just static

### How it's implemented

    Movement - How to obtain smooth motion:
        Movement is always generated by force as opposed to just speed.
        All units, projectiles and particles have an acceleration, max acceleration and deceleration rate.
        Caculation is performed on moving units each frame, applying the proper acceleration and deceleration

    Collision - Speedy detection with 100+ entities:
        Spacial hashing - Each frame, entities such as the player, enemy, projectiles etc. are sorted into a spacial hash
        Although O(n^2) preprocessing, future collision requests are O(1). Idea for games with very many units.

        Collision detection is based on radius. A query is sent to the spacial hash, and it returns the "buckets" 
        that the radius overlaps. This narrows down a list of entities that are likely to be within the radius. Then, an exact 
        distance calculation is performed to determine whether the entity is actually within the radius

    Controls - How to obtain smooth controls:
        Because key strokes, when held, do not send a consistent chain of events, so we use a key map that tracks whether
        a key is in the down state or up state instead

        Each frame that the key is held, generates acceleration which is compounded to the player up to a max accel. This provides

    Picking - How to detect user input:
        The ship shoots at the direction the user picks on the 3d map
        A raycast using three.js is sent from the mouse position to the 3d map

### How to play

    WASD for movement
    Mouse over the map to point ship direction
    Click to fire in pointer direction
    Each enemy kill gains score
    
### Sources

GEOMETRY WARS
http://store.steampowered.com/app/310790/

* http://www.w3schools.com/howto/howto_css_modals.asp
* https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4787431/check-fps-in-js
* http://bradsknutson.com/blog/display-loading-image-while-page-loads/
* http://threejs.org/

### External Resources

Battleship Model
* http://tf3dm.com/3d-model/hn-t-42-battlecruiser-94913.html
